Last thing here that I'm gonna show you,
which is probably the most useful and
you might be a little upset at me
that I did not show you sooner, but
now that you're gonna know about
it you can use it all the time.
There is a extension for
browsers so search for
React extension for whatever your browser.
I'm obviously on Firefox,
so React extension Firefox.
It looks like this,
the React Developer Tools.
It's on Firefox, it's on Chrome,
you can obviously get it on Edge
through the Chrome store as well.
They used to have it on Safari and
they stopped supporting it cuz I
don't think it was super well used.
I think brave can use
the Chrome version as well.
Anyway, install that.
You'll end up with something that looks
like this up here in the top right.
So you can see here,
it's lit up on this page cuz obviously,
there is React on this page.
This page is using the production
build of React for the course website.
Or if we go into here,
this is using the development build.
So this will also remind you of, hey,
you need to package this for production.
Okay, so once you have that installed,
you should get additional two tabs on
here, the components and the profiler.
Let's look at the components one,
it will actually show you like
a DOM Explorer of your app.
So I can see app here if I click
on it I can see the props.
You can see the search params.
You can see this one doesn't
actually have any state.
This one has props here, you can look
at what props are being passed down.
This one should have some hooks though
that we should be able to check out,
yeah we do.
So if I change animal to be cat here.
You can see it'll actually do that and
you can actually come in here and
start messing with it.
So I'm gonna make this dog now and
you can see it gets modified over there.
So that's kind of fun,
you can mess with your state.
You can see the breed list
here that's coming down.
So it actually can even see into your
custom hook, which is kind of cool, right?
There's a lot of cool
stuff you can do here.
You can actually go in here and I get into
this Intermediate React a little bit.
But let's go to search params,
there's a thing called use debug value.
So you can actually render stuff
directly to the extension.
So if I say use debug value,
hi from the code, and
then if I come back over here and
look in search params.
So typically you wouldn't
use it directly in here.
You'd be using it for
something like a custom hook.
And actually,
that might even be my problem here.
I'm gonna have to use it from breed list.
>> Use debug value can be
used to display a label for
custom hooks in React Dev Tools.
>> There you go.
So right there you can see hi
from the code, that's what it is.
So you have to do it from
within a custom hook.
So let's say we needed to show
some sort of internal state.
Maybe something you could
do here that actually
might be sort of useful
is you could say how much
object.keys from localcache.length.
And we could just say
number of values in cache.
Nope, don't need that.
So as of right now, you can see down here,
it's probably kind of hard to see.
But it says, number of values in cache 0.
But if I go in here and say, rabbit, cat,
you can see that number
kind of going up over time.
So that would be a good use for
this right,
is like showing some sort of internal
debugging value that's useful for you.
That wouldn't make sense for
you to store in some sort of hook or
something like that.
I wasn't necessarily planning
on talking about that, but
there's lots of cool stuff you can do with
the Dev Tools is kind of my point here.
There's also a profiler here,
which I have actually used far less.
But we can click this.
And then you can kind of see how
stuff is changing over time.
So you can see here, what the priority
of it was, how long it took to render.
So I just recorded a little bit of
my app and then I clicked play and
then it shows you a detailed
kind of flame graph of that.
You can see here we're
not doing very much so
there's not really any
performance concerns here.
But if you're going through something and
your app was churning through tons of
data and was being super slow to render.
This is how you would find out where
you're getting stuck in your renders.
Pretty cool stuff, right?
There's some pretty
advanced stuff in here.
They're always making it better as well.
It's a lot more advanced
than it used to be.
One more thing I was gonna show you,
which I think is kind of a fun trick.
So I can actually say
Inspect Element here.
Inspect.
So I've now clicked on that.
If I just do that and then I immediately
go over to the Components tree,
it'll actually highlight directly the one
that I was doing from the Explorer, right?
So notice this is the lunar component and
that's what I inspected.
Or if I wanna look at this button,
I can inspect that and then go over to
the components again, and notice that
search params is highlighted right?
So it'll make that connection for
us you can actually just do
inspecting as you normally would.
To take that one step further we
can go over to our console now and
we have dollar sign r.
This actually will refer to
whatever you have selected in
your component tree as well.
So if you wanna
programmatically manipulate it.
I don't know what's in here.
You can see the hooks that it has, so
that's kind of interesting, right?
So you can see all these hooks that
it's keeping track of at the moment.
You can see the props
that it's being passed,
which at the moment's not anything.
Type, so that's search params type.
So all pretty cool stuff right?
All things you can use
to kind of like debug
the various different things in React.